# Arduino-Project-2018

This project consisted of a Arduino red board with 4 different colored LED's attached, a small speaker, as well as an Liquid Crystal Display (LCD). When you run the program, a GUI pops up on the screen with 3 different color-coded options of languages, Spanish, German or Mandarin. Once a language is selected, the background of the GUI turns the color of the language button chosen and the user can then choose between the phrases "Hello", "How are you?", and "Goodbye" to translate in that language. When the user selects a phrase, a corresponding LED the color of the language pane lights up, an audio clip of the translation plays from the Arduino speaker, and the spelling of the translation is displayed on the LCD display. For example, if the user selects "Spanish" as their language of choice, the GUI background turns red (the color of the Spanish button) and if the user selects "Hello" as the subsequent phrase, the red LED on the Arduino board lights up, an audio clip saying "Hola" plays from the speaker, and the text "Hola" is displayed on the LCD display connected to the board. I also included a small button on the board that acts as a reset button whenever the user wishes to change their language selection. The .ino Arduino file handles the LCD and is connected via the Serial Port of the Arduino to the Processing (.pde) file which handles the GUI and the audio. NOTE: you will need an Arduino Red Kit with the necessary hardware add-ons for this application to work. 
